Alright, git reset.
So this one you've seen me use a couple
times cuz we definitely didn't have any
problems earlier, which required
me to change history or anything.
We didn't have any
deviations from this course,
it's been first try all day long, but if
I did I would've probably used git reset.
There's actually quite a bit you can do
with reset I only use it pretty much one
way, which is just get rid of my current
changes, that's pretty much what I use.
Like I don't like these just
get the hell out of here,
right like that's what I that's how I use
it so we're not there right now, we're
gonna do a little bit different, we're
gonna kind of show you a little bit more.
So a soft reset is a reset In which
you actually walk back a commit,
your branch will walk
back a commit with you.
And that commit that you
just effectively forgot and
changed history will become the change
inside the working tree and index.
So we just got done reverting E, right?
So if I go git reset --soft head tilde 1,
I'm now gonna walk back that commit,
it's still trunk, right?
We're still in trunk, but
if I go git log one line, you'll notice,
where's the revert?
The revert, where's the revert?
It's gone, right?
If I go git status.
Well, look what the VCS drug in,
get diff stage, there we go.
Awesome, there's the -C, so
you can see I just undid the commit.
That's git reset soft, which means
that all the changes now go into your
working tree slash into your index.
So, awesome.
I actually really like this,
it's really great when you say you're
teaching a class and you totally mess up.
You can actually walk these things back
pretty easy, contain all the changes and
know how to work things.
I really like,
I actually really like reset soft, and
the best part is I didn't really even know
about reset soft for a very long time.
Typically what I would do is I would just
go into the logs, check out the specific
Shah and then just delete my branch and
create that as my new branch.
But instead with reset a hard or soft
you can just walk it back and you don't
have to do that little hopping, recreating
checking out, destroying type thing.
There's also kind of like an inverted
version of this, like right now if I
do this resets soft I can actually commit,
write a new shot, right?
And now I have the same change,
but I've changed the message so
it no longer says we reverted E,
and it has a new shot.
So I've kind of hit history by accident,
right?
But I could do the exact same thing
in some sense by using get a met, so
commit --amend allows you to
take your current changes and
retroactively apply them
to the commit you're on.
And then you can even do amend --no edit,
and that will edit the commit
you're just on, but you don't have
to change the commit message.
When I'm doing CI, I literally echo a,
space to the end of a file,
git add, git commit, amend,
no edit, git force push.
That way there's only like one change,
instead of the CI thing where
you have 9,000 changes.
You can do a git reset soft git commit and
just keep on changing the thing over and
over again or
just add a space and do that.
So amend, reset soft.
Fun little move here,
I do it all the time.
Good times, but remember,
you're always changing history when
you're doing those things, so
can be a little bit dangerous.
All right, so hard, we can do
the same thing as soft, except for
this one drops the changes to
index in your working tree.
That means when you go back,
it will completely destroy it.
So we'll do the exact same thing, we are
going to make a little bit of a change and
we're gonna destroy our
changes with reset --hard.
So first make a change to README and
then add a new file called foo.md,
make those two and
then let's destroy them.
So I'll go vim README, jump in here,
there we go, a little bit of a change and
then foo.md and I don't know.
There you go, some voac in there.
Git status,
you can see these two things right here.
Now remember, this is a tracked
change that's not staged,
cuz remember, read means is tracked,
it's a part of the working tree.
Foo is not a part of the working tree,
it has never been tracked,
it's never been staged, and so
we have no information about it.
So if I go git reset --hard,
it will destroy all working
tree changes and index changes.
So if go git status, still got foo, I just
don't have the readme change anymore,
cuz remember, it just destroys
only what git knows about.
Now, here's the danger, this is the big
danger if people fall into white,
they'll get at this, and so now it now
knows about this for the first time, and
I go get reset --hard.
It's gone and there's like no coming
back from this one, it's a goner, right?
You just erased a file that
was never tracked, and so
there's no previous history at this point.
So you got to be a little
careful about using reset heart,
you can also do the whole walking back.
So if I go up, if I go vim read me and
I add a commit, right here and
go git add git commit, now a bunch
of nonsense and then go git a reset.
Hard HEAD-1, it does the exact same
thing that soft did except for again,
what does it do to the index and
working tree gets rid of it.
So if I go git status, nothing there,
just simply walk me back one commit.
So get log one,
you'll see that I'm at the new shawl.
So kind of neat.
So, when you're needing to kind of
just save yourself a little bit,
knowing about the git reset hard and
soft is pretty nice.
>> It's not really a new SHA,
anymore because it was it
says a new SHA but it's.
>> Get out.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's it.
We are fist fighting alright so
there you go pretty fun times I don't know
I actually really like I really it's just
it's absolutely fantastic having these.
I can't tell you how many odd times
that this actually is you Is useful,
that I used to do a bunch of
steps to do the same thing,
now it's just like I can just
do them in one single command.
As often I find myself checking out and
destroying the past and
rechecking out a new branch and doing all
this just to walk back a couple commits
that I was like, ooh,
I really goofed whatever that was.
All right.
Let's see.
Ooh, yeah this is a good one,
I forgot about this part.
Okay, so, all right, So
I did just remove the revert, right?
No, we didn't, I removed that extra
change I put on top of it, right?
That the vRAC whatever change, right?
We just did that, together?
We should, here, let me revert also
the revert, so I'm gonna go like this,
git reset --hard, there we go.
We're back now,
we're kind of into this point.
Now the revert's gone.
So we're just right here.
Can you restore git hello to the position
it was before we started this section?
>> Is the SHA the same though, The answer,
it's reflog, it's always reflog, right?
You just gotta go find
that nice little reflog.
I had a whole bunch of entries here,
I did a bunch of extra work, yeah.
You can effectively be able to grab out,
our previous commit was the Revert E,
remember?
We did all that, so we gotta go find
the Revert E, so I can go in here and
go git reflog,
find wherever revert is, there we go.
It's right here.
And you can do that, I mean,
there's plenty of ways you can do this.
I'm sure there's some much more
awesome way to do this, but
I can get check out that thing.
I can get branch delete trunk,
I can get checkout --b trunk, right?
Well, yeah, I just restored it from doing
that, I'm sure there's some nicer way
to do that, I always find myself in habit
of just doing that because I'm always,
I don't know.
Once you do something then it's
really hard to break that habit,
that's typically how I'll always do it.
Even with reset soft, sometimes I'll
just forget that I can do that and
I just do this big hopping thing.
No.
It's beautiful,
you can do a git reset --hard.
Yeah, you can do a git
reset --hard whatever end.
Type to remember, it's a reset part and
then you can go anywhere.
So I can actually reset --hard
to a branch that's remote or
to anything that's a commit.
So I could have also done the whole
head and then whatever the index was,
whatever it was 14, right?
And I could go off and do that.
So it's a nice little thing.